# Songpark Bitbang

A Clojure library designed to interface with the FPGA for purposes of controlling the gain by addressing the registers. The library allows for reading and writing to the FPGA via bitbanging which is method of data communication that software employs as a substitute for dedicated hardware to generate transmitted signals.

# Bit banging (how it works)
Bit banging is a method of creating a series of bits using software instead of using a piece of hardware inside a microcontroller. It is a relatively simple concept which involves writing a byte to a register by sending a series of bits. These bits are transfered over the device GPIO pins and the software is responsible for synchronization, timing, setting the state and sampling the input pin. The technique is reliant on four main pins which are Chip Select, Clock, MISO and MOSI.

##### Chip Select 
We use this pin to communicate to the device when we want to start reading or writing to the device. We set it to TRUE/HIGH when we are not ready to accept or tranasmit any bits over to the device. We set it to FALSE/LOW when we want to to start reading or writing to the device.

##### Serial Clock 
The clock synchronize data transmission generated by the master

##### Master Out Slave In (MOSI)
The slave line for sending data to the master 

##### Master In Slave Out (MISO)
the master line for sending data to the devices 
## Usage

###### Writing
```clojure
(bit-write register data chip-select clock data-in)
```
Accepts Decimal and Hexadecimal values as input to write data to a specific register on the FPGA. It requires the pins to be provided before usage.
###### Reading
```clojure
(bit-read register chip-select clock data-in data-out)
```
Accepts a Hexadecimal value that point sto the register that it is supposed to read from and returns a decimal value as the output.

##
